The system should be able to work with 230V AC 50Hz Türkiye home network connection. A simple AC-DC converter is made. Flyback has not been dealt with. For this, a rectifier circuit has been made and a transformer has been selected. While Primary=230V, Secondary=12V. In addition, instead of using separate diodes for the bridge diode, bridge integrated is preferred.

There should be 12V DC and 5V DC power outputs that can be used from the system to the user. DC-DC Converter is selected separately to convert from 12V to 5V and 3V3.

The system must be able to connect to a computer and transfer data via USB interface. Micro-B USB has been chosen for this.

The system should be able to provide real-time clock information to the user. For this, Real Time Clock is selected. We narrowed down the selection in I2C format. Supply Voltage is also an important element.

The system should be able to instantly transfer the ambient temperature data to the user. PTC sensor is selected for temperature outside. PTC is directly proportional to temperature. A sensor with SPI communication is selected for temperature inside.

The system should be able to send data to the user when a motion is detected. PIR sensor is used for this. The well-known LHI 878 was chosen.

When a motion is detected, the user will be able to receive an audible or visual warning. For audible warning, 5V and DC input buzzer is selected.

The system must have a security camera view in an environment where motion can be detected. In order to give the appearance of a security camera on the card with the sensor, an n channel mosfet that will turn ON/OFF a red led has been selected.

The system will be able to send all data to the user with the Wi-Fi feature. The familiar ESP32-WROOM was chosen for the Wi-Fi module.
If the user wishes, he will be able to interfere with the software running in the processor.

When selecting the MCU, a processor from the 44-pin LQFP package STM32F1 family was selected. It has been paid attention to have ADC, I2C, SPI, UART communication.

While selecting Relay to ON/OFF the lighting system in the garden, a component with more than 2A, coil voltage 5V and 12V and capable of relaying 50VAC was selected.

A slide switch is selected to ON/OFF the sensor mode.

Data will be sent from card 2 to card 1 via ADC. Since there will be connection and cable in between, a buffer circuit should be made and an opamp is used for this. The standard is used OPA314, which is widely used in the market.
